DM-9324: Add citation information to pipelines.lsst.io. (#253)
lsst/pipelines_lsst_io: index.rst

- :ref:`genindex`
- :ref:`Search <search>`

> .. _part-usage:
> 
> Use of Rubin Observatory Software
> =================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _part-citation:

Citing and acknowledging the LSST Science Pipelines
===================================================
```

I think "Use of Rubin Observatory Software" doesn't hit the mark for a couple reasons:

1. People are looking for information on how to acknowledge and/or cite the LSST Science Pipelines in their works. I think it's smart to key the header on that use case. Further, I'd recommend splitting the licensing information into another section, below this (see comment below).
2. "Rubin Observatory Software" is a fairly broad term, and this section doesn't accurately apply to Rubin software in general, only the LSST Science Pipelines component of it. So I think it's good to use "LSST Science Pipelines" here.
3. On a style basis, note this header is in title case, whereas [our style](https://developer.lsst.io/user-docs/index.html) specifies sentence case for section headings.

All LSST Science Pipelines code is `free software <http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html>`_, licensed under the terms of the `GNU General Public Licence, Version 3 <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>`_.

> You have the freedom to run, copy, distribute, study, change and improve the software as you see fit, with no strings attached (aside from the GPL requirements when redistributing the code or derivatives).

Reviewer: I worry that the "no strings attached" language is at odds with the parenthetical statement. Perhaps this is more accurate?

```suggestion
You have the freedom to run, copy, distribute, study, change and improve the software as you see fit within the terms of the GPL v3 license.
```

Do you think it'd be beneficial to use the [Choose a license page](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/gpl-3.0/) to provide clear guidelines to users on what the license means?

Author: Happy to change the text as you suggest. What would be your specific recommendation with regards the 'Choose a license page'?

Reviewer: The choosealicense.com provides executive summaries of different software licenses (it was created by GitHub). It may be overreach here, so we can skip it.

> Using, modifying or redistributing the LSST Science Pipelines does not make you subject to the LSST Project Publication Policy (`LPM-162 <https://ls.st/lpm-162>`_).

Reviewer: I recommend moving this first paragraph into a new section called "License" located below "Citing and acknowledging...." and above "More info. In that section, you can also specify that this documentation is license [CC-BY-SA 4.0](https://github.com/lsst/pipelines_lsst_io/blob/main/LICENSE)

In addition, it is appropriate to include an acknowledgement of the form:

  This paper makes use of LSST Science Pipelines software developed by the `Vera C. Rubin Observatory <https://rubinobservatory.org/>`_.
  We thank the Rubin Observatory for making their code available as free software at `https://pipelines.lsst.io <https://pipelines.lsst.io/>`_.

For studies that make use of the Data Butler and pipeline execution system, we request that you additionally cite `Jenness et al. 2022 <https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2022SPIE12189E..11J/abstract>`_.
For studies that make use of the SCARLET source separation framework, we request that you additionally cite `Melchior et al. 2018 <https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2018A%26C....24..129M/abstract>`_.

As the Rubin Observatory is not funded to provide support for the LSST Science Pipelines outside of the project, any support provided by project members will come out of their own free or science time.

> A fair way to acknowledge their help and good will may be to offer co-authorship on technical papers describing the derived software (e.g. pipelines).

Reviewer: I know this is true for DM in MREFC funding (construction), but I'm curious if it also applies to CST and DM in operations.

Reviewer: (this is likely beyond the scope of the current contribution! To be clear, I think we can go with these sentences, but perhaps it needs to be revisited soon.
